
How Hackers Operate and How to Protect Yourself


People, not computers, create computer threats. Computer predators victimize others for their own gain. Give a predator access to the Internet — and to your PC — and the threat they pose to your security increases exponentially. Computer hackers are unauthorized users who break into computer systems in order to steal, change or destroy information, often by installing dangerous malware without your knowledge or consent. Their clever tactics and detailed technical knowledge help them access the information you really don’t want them to have.
How can hackers find me?


Anyone who uses a computer connected to the Internet is susceptible to the threats that computer hackers and online predators pose. These online villains typically use phishing scams, spam email or instant messages and bogus websites to deliver dangerous malware to your computer and compromise your computer security.

Computer hackers can also try to access your computer and private information directly if you are not protected by a firewall. They can monitor your conversations or peruse the back-end of your personal website. Usually disguised with a bogus identity, predators can lure you into revealing sensitive personal and financial information, or much worse.
What are things that a hacker can do to me?


While your computer is connected to the Internet, the malware a hacker has installed on your PC quietly transmits your personal and financial information without your knowledge or consent. Or, a computer predator may pounce on the private information you unwittingly revealed. In either case, they will be able to:

    Hijack your usernames and passwords
    Steal your money and open credit card and bank accounts in your name
    Ruin your credit
    Request new account Personal Identification Numbers (PINs) or additional credit cards
    Make purchases
    Add themselves or an alias that they control as an authorized user so it’s easier to use your credit
    Obtain cash advances
    Use and abuse your Social Security number
    Sell your information to other parties who will use it for illicit or illegal purposes

Predators who stalk people while online can pose a serious physical threat. Using extreme caution when agreeing to meet an online “friend” or acquaintance in person is always the best way to keep safe.
How will I know if I've been hacked?


Check the accuracy of your personal accounts, credit cards, and documents. Are there unexplained transactions? Questionable or unauthorized changes? If so, dangerous malware installed by predators or hackers may already be lurking.
What can I do about computer hackers and predators?


When you arm yourself with information and resources, you’re wiser about computer security threats and less vulnerable to threat tactics. Hackers and predators pose equally serious and but very different threats.
Protect yourself while online

    Continually check the accuracy of personal accounts and deal with any discrepancies right away
    Use extreme caution when entering chat rooms or posting personal Web pages
    Limit the personal information you post on a personal Web pages
    Carefully monitor requests by online “friends” or acquaintances for predatory behavior
    Keep personal and financial information out of online conversations
    Use extreme caution when agreeing to meet an online “friend” or acquaintance in person

Security Tips to Prevent Hacking

    Use a 2-way firewall
    Update your operating system regularly
    Increase your browser security settings
    Avoid questionable Web sites
    Only download software from sites you trust. Carefully evaluate free software and file-sharing applications before downloading them.

Practice safe email and virus/malware protocols

    Don't open messages from unknown senders
    Immediately delete messages you suspect to be spam
    Make sure that you have the best security software products installed on your PC:
    Use antivirus protection
    Get antispyware software protection

Guard Yourself Against Dangerous Online Threats

An unprotected computer is like an open door for computer hackers and predators. To take it a step further, protect your computer from hackers by using a spam filter or gateway to scan inbound email or instant messages. Products like Webroot AntiVirus and Webroot Internet Security Complete thwart dangerous malware before it can enter your PC, stand guard at every possible entrance of your computer and fend off any spyware or viruses that try to enter, even the most damaging and devious strains. While free anti-spyware and antivirus downloads are available, they just can’t keep up with the continuous onslaught of new malware strains. Previously undetected forms of malware can often do the most damage, so it’s critical to have up-to-the-minute, guaranteed protection.

Webroot offers complete, cloud-based protection from viruses and identity theft for all your devices, without slowing you down. Click the link to learn more about all of our internet security solutions for the home.

When the FBI asked Apple to help crack the San Bernardino shooter's iPhone, the agency was wading into dangerous waters. That's according to an essay by Susan Landau, Professor of Cybersecurity Policy at Worcester Polytechnic Institute, published today in the journal Science . Landau, who worked as a privacy analyst for Google, writes that the FBI's approach was shortsighted and risked undermining smartphone protections for users across the board while inviting exploitation of the resulting security weaknesses by bad guys.

The real problem, Landau says, was the way the FBI wanted Apple to crack the phone. The agency had ordered Apple to create a special update that would disable a security feature normally causing the phone to shut down after ten failed password attempts. They would only use the special update once, the agency claimed, deleting it after use. Apple refused. Chief executive Tim Cook said that the resulting software would amount to a "master key, capable of opening hundreds of millions of locks," leaving all their customers vulnerable. (The FBI ultimately paid a third-party contractor $1.3 million who was able to hack the phone.)

Using software updates to hack smartphones is dumb, Landau writes, and she doesn't buy the FBI's claim that the update wouldn't be reused. In fact, as Apple lawyers revealed in February, the FBI had ordered Apple to provide access to eleven other iPhones since September 2015. Landau suggests that the FBI would be tempted to reuse the San Bernardino update, and perhaps even share the tool with other law enforcement agencies, such as the Manhattan DA, which holds over 200 stubbornly locked iPhones. If the use of updates to hack smartphones were to become routine, it could lead to misuse by bad actors, she argues.

"Some neglect in the process or the collaboration of a rogue employee would make it easy for false requests to be slipped into the update queue." And consumers might wonder if new updates might actually be surveillance tools. If distrust leads users to avoid updates it "would have devastating security effects," she writes.
ADVERTISEMENT / ADVERTISE WITH US
"Some neglect in the process or the collaboration of a rogue employee would make it easy for false requests to be slipped into the update queue."
- Susan Landau, Cybersecurity Policy at Worcester Polytechnic Institute

But by far the greatest risk, Landau argues, would be the undermining of secure authentication. The two-step authentication system (password plus a temporary ID number) works great with smartphones. With the protection features weakened, attackers could more easily impersonate the phone owner, which would be especially problematic if the target held sensitive information or had special access.

At the heart of the issue is the so-called "going dark" problem: The FBI has legal authority to access certain information (such as data on San Bernardino shooter's phone), but lacks the technological knowhow or capability to get it. As FBI director James Comey put it in a 2014 speech: "Armed with lawful authority, we increasingly find ourselves simply unable to do that which the courts have authorized us to do, and that is to collect information being transmitted by terrorists, by criminals, by pedophiles, by bad people of all sorts—simply unable to do our jobs; unable to intercept, lawfully, data-in-motion." He went on to compare the data held in a smartphone to the contents inside the trunk of a car. Naturally he'd like easy access to both.

While many frame the smartphone encryption issue as one of privacy, Landau argues that it's really all about security. Rather than asking tech companies to weaken the security of their devices, she writes, the FBI should focus on strengthening its own tech skills. Her message to the FBI: DIY! She recommends a big boost in the staff and money the FBI dedicates to what she calls "lawful hacking."
ADVERTISEMENT / ADVERTISE WITH US

Landau concludes:
The FBI must develop 21st-century investigative savvy. This will require government investment, but the alternative, of permitting bad actors access to our systems, is unacceptable. The FBI should be urging manufacturers to increase the security of their devices. As for the Apple phone, the FBI should not be undermining the best security that any consumer device has to date.
